hello and welcome to this home crafts
video where I'll be showing you how you
can make beautiful jewelry using cold
enameling for this method I'm going to
be using mixing cups two different kinds
of cold enamel some cold enamel hardener
a set of mixing sticks and some jewelry
blanks which have all been cleaned with
methylated spirits the ratio of cold
enamel to hardener needs to be right
otherwise your cold enamel won't set and
will stay sticky you should always make
sure that you use the gradient markers
on the side of the mixing cups to check
that your ratios are correct you'll need
to measure out two parts of cold enamel
to one part hardener and mix thoroughly
you have about 30 minutes working time
when you're using cold enamel so if
you're using more than one color on a
piece of jewelry it's a good idea to mix
them both up at the same time
Oh
when you mix your cold enamel try and be
careful not to stare any air bubbles
into the mixture once your cold enamel
is mixed you ready to start decorating
your jewelry if you're covering a blank
that doesn't have raised edges use your
mixing stick to dab the cold enamel onto
the surface you can use the mixing stick
to push it right onto the edges
also services covered set it aside to
dry
if your piece of jewelry has raised
edges
you can pour the enamel into position
you
again use the mixing stick to push the
enamel into position
you can then use the mixing stick to
create interesting marbled effects
once you're happy with the appearance
set it aside to dry
after 24 hours your cold enamel will be
set hard and you're ready to wear your
gorgeous jewelry and it's not just
jewelry that works with cold enameling
you can experiment with all different
surfaces from cardboard boxes to ceramic
bathroom tiles just experiment and see
what you can create
you